**

![](data:image/svg+xml;base64,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)DataStax\
Studio

**

socrates73@gmail.com

▾

**SchemaView Schema

**View Notebook History

 

Language: Markdown

▾

**Other Cell Actions

**

**

**

**





![line](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/fenago/apache-cassandra/master/datadrax_images/line.png "line")

Set Up the Notebook

### In this section, you will do the following things:

- Execute a CQL script to initialize the KillrVideo database for this notebook

\

#### **Step 1:** Execute the following cell to initialize this notebook. Hover over the right-hand corner of the cell and click the *Run* button.

![line](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/fenago/apache-cassandra/master/datadrax_images/ExecuteCell.png "line")

#### **Note:** You don't see the CQL script because the code editor is hidden, but you can still run the cell.





 









 







![line](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/fenago/apache-cassandra/master/datadrax_images/line.png "line")

Collection Types

### In this section, you will do the following things:

- Investigate `SET`, which is one of the collection types

- Insert and retrieve rows in the `videos` table that use `SET`

\

#### The `videos` table uses a `SET` collection to keep track of tags associated with each video. A `SET` is a great collection to use because sets do not maintain an order - we are not concerned with any tag order, only if a tag is or is not associated with the video.

#### Let's start by reviewing the definition of the `videos` table:

\

#### **Step 1:**Execute the following cell to describe the `videos` table.

\





 



// Execute this cell (click the Run button in the top-right corner)

DESCRIBE TABLE killrvideo.videos;







 







#### Note two things about the `videos` table. First, the primary key is just `videoid`. Second, the `tags` column is a set of text. Tags are words or phrases we want to associate with a video.

#### To allow us to keep our focus on `SET`, in this example we will only specify the `videoid` and the `tags`. Once again, let's use our contrived `uuid` of `12121212-1212-1212-1212-121212121212`.

\

#### **Step 2:** In the following cell, insert a sparse row into the videos table with a `videoid` of `12121212-1212-1212-1212-121212121212` and a set of tags that contain the words: `Favorite`, `Fast-paced`, `Funny`.

\

\
*Need a hint? Click here.*

You want to `INSERT` into the `killrvideo.videos` table with a
`videoid` of `12121212-1212-1212-1212-121212121212` and a set of tags
such as `{ 'Favorite', 'Fast-paced', 'Funny' }`. \

\
*Want the command? Click here.*

    INSERT INTO killrvideo.videos (videoid, tags)
      VALUES(12121212-1212-1212-1212-121212121212, { 'Favorite', 'Fast-paced', 'Funny' });





 



// Write a command to insert a row into the videos table

// Execute this cell (click the Run button in the top-right corner)







 







#### Now, let's check to see if our insert worked as expected.

\

#### **Step 3:** Execute the following cell to query for the row with the `videoid` of `12121212-1212-1212-1212-121212121212`.

\





 



// Execute this cell (click the Run button in the top-right corner)

SELECT \* FROM killrvideo.videos WHERE videoid =








 







#### Inspect the `tags` values and see that the `INSERT` worked as expected.

\

#### There are two kinds of `SET` updates we could perform. We can completely replace a set, or we can modify the contents of an existing set. First, we'll replace the entire `tags` set with the values `High-brow`, `Intellectual` and `Refined`.

\

#### **Step 4:** In the following cell, write a comand to replace the `tags` set for the `videoid` of `12121212-1212-1212-1212-121212121212`.

\

\
*Need a hint? Click here.*

You want to `UPDATE` the `killrvideo.videos` table with a `videoid` of
`12121212-1212-1212-1212-121212121212`. `SET` the `tags` value to the
new set `{ 'High-brow', 'Intellectual', 'Refined' }`. \

\
*Want the command? Click here.*

    UPDATE killrvideo.videos SET tags = { 'High-brow', 'Intellectual', 'Refined' } WHERE videoid = 12121212-1212-1212-1212-121212121212;





 



// Write a command to update the row from the videos table

// Execute this cell (click the Run button in the top-right corner)







 







#### Once again, let's inspect the effect of the `UPDATE`.

\

#### **Step 5:** Execute the following cell - a query to retrieve the row for the `videoid` of `12121212-1212-1212-1212-121212121212`.

\





 



// Execute this cell (click the Run button in the top-right corner)

SELECT \* FROM killrvideo.videos WHERE videoid =








 







#### We see the values we updated in Step 3. The values may not be in the same order as in your `UPDATE` command, but that's OK.

\

#### **Thought question:** If you *were* concerned about the order of the tags, what data type would you use instead of a `SET`?

\

#### Let's modify the set again. This time we will remove the `Refined` tag. Then in later steps we will replace it with `Low-rent`.

\

#### **Step 6:** In the following cell, write a command to update, by removing the `Refined` tag, for the `videoid` of `12121212-1212-1212-1212-121212121212`.

\

\
*Need a hint? Click here.*

Here, you will use an `UPDATE` command. Again, we are updating the row
in the `killrvideo.videos` table with the `videoid` of
`12121212-1212-1212-1212-121212121212`. The clause you use to remove
the tag looks like `tags = tags - { 'Refined' }`. \

\
*Want the command? Click here.*

    UPDATE killrvideo.videos SET tags = tags - { 'Refined' } WHERE videoid = 12121212-1212-1212-1212-121212121212;





 



// Write a command to update the row from the videos table

// Execute this cell (click the Run button in the top-right corner)







 







#### Again, let's check the contents of the row to see the effects of our command.

\

#### **Step 7:** Execute the following cell - a query to retrieve the row for the `videoid` of `12121212-1212-1212-1212-121212121212`.

\





 



// Execute this cell (click the Run button in the top-right corner)

SELECT \* FROM killrvideo.videos WHERE videoid =








 







#### Inspecting the previous results, we see the row now only has two tags - that's what we wanted!

\

#### Let's add a third tag `Low-rent`.

\

#### **Step 8:** In the following cell, write a command to update, by adding the `Low-rent` tag, for the `videoid` of `12121212-1212-1212-1212-121212121212`.

\

\
*Need a hint? Click here.*

Here, you will use an `UPDATE` command. Again, we are updating the row
in the `killrvideo.videos` table with the `videoid` of
`12121212-1212-1212-1212-121212121212`. The clause you use to remove
the tag looks like `tags = tags + { 'Low-rent' }`. \

\
*Want the command? Click here.*

    UPDATE killrvideo.videos SET tags = tags + { 'Low-rent' } WHERE videoid = 12121212-1212-1212-1212-121212121212;





 



// Write a command to update the row from the videos table

// Execute this cell (click the Run button in the top-right corner)







 







#### One last time, let's check the contents of the row to see the effects of our command.

\

#### **Step 9:** Execute the following cell.

\





 



// Execute this cell (click the Run button in the top-right corner)

SELECT \* FROM killrvideo.videos WHERE videoid =








 







#### Review the results in the previous cell to see that the update worked as expected.

* * * * *

**Note (some things to keep in mind about Collections):**\

To avoid performance problems, only use collections for small-ish
numbers of elements
Sets and maps do not incur the read-before-write penalty, but some
list operations do. Therefore, when possible, prefer sets to lists
List prepend and append operations are not idempotent, so retrying
after a timeout may result in duplicate elements
Collections may only be used in primary keys if they are frozen






![line](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/fenago/apache-cassandra/master/datadrax_images/line.png "line")

Counters

### In this section, you will do the following things:

- Investigate the `video_playback_stats` table in `killrvideo`

- Add a row to the `video_playback_stats` table

- Increment the counter of the table to simulate videoing a video

\

#### KillrVideo uses the `video_playback_stats` table to keep track of the number of times a video has been viewed. A counter is a great data type for this use-case because counters perform well in Cassandra, and in the rare event where the counter might drop an update, it is not a serious problem for the app or its users.

\

#### Let's start by investigating this table.

\

#### **Step 1:** In the following cell, describe the `video_playback_stats` table.

\
*Need a hint? Click here.*

You want to use the `DESCRIBE` command to describe only the table. \

\
*Want the command? Click here.*

    DESCRIBE TABLE killrvideo.video_playback_stats;





 



// Write a command to allow you to review the table definition for
video\_playback\_stats

// Execute this cell (click the Run button in the top-right corner)







 







#### Notice that this table has two columns: `videoid` and `views`. Also, notice that `views` is a counter that keeps track of how many times the video has been, uh, viewed.

#### In this section, we want to update a counter. Just to keep things simple, let's use a contrived `uuid` for the `videoid`. We'll use the value `12121212-1212-1212-1212-121212121212`.

\

#### We'll start by verifying that a row for this `videoid` does not yet exist in the table.

\

#### **Step 2:** In the following cell, try to retrieve the row with the `videoid` of `12121212-1212-1212-1212-121212121212`.

\
*Need a hint? Click here.*

For this command, you will use the `SELECT` statement on the
`video_playback_stats` table in the `killrvideo` keyspace. You only
want the row where the `videoid` is
`12121212-1212-1212-1212-121212121212`, but it will be easiest just to
grab all the columns. \

\
*Want the command? Click here.*

    SELECT * from killrvideo.video_playback_stats WHERE videoid = 12121212-1212-1212-1212-121212121212;





 



// Write a command to try to retrieve the row with a videoid of


// Execute this cell (click the Run button in the top-right corner)







 







#### We see “No Data Returned” which allows us to verify that the row with that key is not in the table yet.

#### Let's try creating the row with that `videoid`.

\

#### **Step 3:** Create the row by incrementing the `views` counter for the `videoid` `12121212-1212-1212-1212-121212121212`.

\
*Need a hint? Click here.*

You will be `UPDATE`ing the row in the
`killrvideo.video_playback_stats` with the `videoid` of
`12121212-1212-1212-1212-121212121212`. You will increment the counter
with code like this: `views = views + 1`. \

\
*Want the command? Click here.*

    UPDATE killrvideo.video_playback_stats SET views = views + 1 WHERE videoid = 12121212-1212-1212-1212-121212121212;

#### **Thought question:** Since we know we cannot `INSERT` a row with a counter, we can only `UPDATE` the row, what will the value of the counter be after we increment it?

\





 



// Write a command to update the views counter of the row with a videoid
of 12121212-1212-1212-1212-121212121212

// Execute this cell (click the Run button in the top-right corner)







 







#### Let's see the results of the update!

\

#### **Step 4:** Execute the following cell and inspect the results.

\





 



// Execute this cell (click the Run button in the top-right corner)

SELECT \* FROM killrvideo.video\_playback\_stats WHERE videoid =








 







#### This time we see the row. We created the row with the `UPDATE` command - an upsert! Notice that the value of the `views` counter is one. That's because, when you create a row by incrementing the counter, it's as if the counter started at zero.

* * * * *

**Note (some things to keep in mind about counters):**\

Counters cannot be part of a primary key
Incrementing or decrementing counters is not idempotent
Incrementing or decrementing a counter is not always guaranteed to
work - under high traffic situations, it is possible for one of these
operations to get dropped






![line](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/fenago/apache-cassandra/master/datadrax_images/line.png "line")

Congratulations!!!!

#### If you have made it to the end of this notebook successfully, you have additional data types under your belt that you can use in your data type virtuoso!

\

You can learn about even more data types at [DataStax
Academy](https://960c8048-db65-4c70-9ae7-dafb585274ca-us-east1.studio.astra.datastax.com/notebooks/%20//academy.datastax.com).
The price? NADA!

\

#### 

\
*Want to see another virtuoso? Click here.*

![Virtuoso!](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/fenago/apache-cassandra/master/datadrax_images/giphy.gif)





 







![line](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/fenago/apache-cassandra/master/datadrax_images/line.png "line")

Bonus Challenge: Create a UDT

If you got done early and want something to do while you wait for
others, here's a bonus challenge

### In this section, you will do the following things:

- Create a UDT to represent video encoding

- Alter the KillrVideo `videos` table to use this UDT

- Load some data into the altered `videos` table

- Run a query on the loaded data with the UDT

- Update the value of a row containing a UDT

#### **Here's the pitch:**

#### As KillrVideo grows in popularity, it becomes necessary to support various video formats with different bit rates, encodings and frame sizes. This seems like an ideal use for a UDT. Let's build the UDT and then add it to the `videos` table.

#### **Step 1:** In the next cell, write and execute the CQL to create a UDT, named `video_encoding` that contains the fields as described in the following table.

Field Name

Data Type

bit\_rates

SET\<TEXT\

encoding

TEXT

height

INT

width

INT

\
*Want the solution? Click here.*

    CREATE TYPE IF NOT EXISTS killrvideo.video_encoding (
        bit_rates   SET<TEXT,
        encoding    TEXT,
        height      INT,
        width       INT
    );





 



// Create the video\_encoding UDT in this cell as described.

// Then, to execute this cell, click the Run button in the top-right
corner (or SHIFT-ENTER)







 







#### **Step 2:** In the next cell, truncate the contents of the `videos` table to prepare it to receive the data with the encoding.

\
*Want the solution? Click here.*

    TRUNCATE TABLE killrvideo.videos;





 



// Write the CQL to truncate the videos table

// Then, to execute this cell, click the Run button in the top-right
corner (or SHIFT-ENTER)







 







#### **Step 3:** In the next cell, alter the `videos` table by adding an `encodings` column of type `FROZEN<video_encoding`.

* * * * *

#### **NOTE:** UDTs that contain containers (e.g., sets, lists, etc.) must be declared `FROZEN` to make it explicit that Cassandra serializes the contents of the UDT into a single value for storage.

* * * * *

\
*Want the solution? Click here.*

    ALTER TABLE killrvideo.videos ADD (encoding FROZEN<video_encoding);





 



// Write the CQL to add the encoding column to the videos table

// Then, to execute this cell, click the Run button in the top-right
corner (or SHIFT-ENTER)







 







#### **Step 4:** Use the `COPY` command in *cqlsh* to populate the `videos` table from the contents of the `/home/ubuntu/data/videos.csv` file.

- To complete this step, you must have already completed the bonus challenge in *Notebook 2: Using CQL*, which setups up the *cqlsh* connection.

- In Theia, open `/home/ubuntu/data/videos.csv` to make note of the columns in the file. Since the file does not contain all the columns in the table, you will need to list these in the `COPY` command. The form of the command looks like `COPY keyspacename.tablename (col1,col2,col3) FROM filename.csv WITH HEADER=TRUE;`

- While still in the `videos.csv` file, you may find it helpful to also note the format of the values for the `video_encoding` UDT.

- Open a terminal window in Theia

- Be sure to `cd ~/.cassandra`

- Launch *cqlsh* by `cqlsh -u KVUser -p KVPassword`

- Remember to set the consistency level by `CONSISTENCY LOCAL_QUORUM;`

- `COPY` the `/home/ubuntu/data/videos.csv` file into the `videos` table.

\
*Want the solution? Click here.*

    COPY killrvideo.videos (videoid,added_date,description,tags,name,userid) FROM '/home/ubuntu/data/videos.csv' WITH HEADER=TRUE;





 







#### **Step 5:** Use the `COPY` command in *cqlsh* also to encodings to the `videos` table from the contents of the `/home/ubuntu/data/videos_encoding.csv` file.

- Again, in Theia open the file (`/home/ubuntu/data/videos_encoding`) to make note of the columns the file contains.

- Back in *cqlsh* `COPY` the `/home/ubuntu/data/videos_encodings.csv` file into the `videos` table.

\
*Want the solution? Click here.*

    COPY killrvideo.videos (videoid,encoding) FROM '/home/ubuntu/data/videos_encoding.csv' WITH HEADER=TRUE;





 







#### **Step 6:** In the following cell, query the `videos` table for the `encoding` column value of the row with the `videoid` of `2644c36e-14bd-11e5-839e-8438355b7e3a`.

- Inspect the output to see what the UDT looks like.

\
*Want the solution? Click here.*

    SELECT encoding FROM killrvideo.videos WHERE videoid=2644c36e-14bd-11e5-839e-8438355b7e3a;





 



// Write a CQL query to find the row in the videos table with a videoid
of 2644c36e-14bd-11e5-839e-8438355b7e3a

// Then, to execute this cell, click the Run button in the top-right
corner (or SHIFT-ENTER)







 







#### The UDT is `FROZEN` which means if you want to update it, you must replace the entire contents of the UDT. Remember, Cassandra encodes the UDT into something like a single blob.

#### **Step 7:** In the following cell, write a CQL UPDATE command to add a bit rate of “1500 Kbps” to the `video_encoding` for the row with the `videoid` of `2644c36e-14bd-11e5-839e-8438355b7e3a`.

- Here is an example of the correct format of the UDT *before* the update of the additional bit rate.

<!-- --

    {
        encoding: '1080p',
        height: 1080,
        width: 1920,
        bit_rates: {
            '3000 Kbps', 
            '4500 Kbps', 
            '6000 Kbps'
        }
    }

\
*Want the solution? Click here.*

    UPDATE killrvideo.videos
        SET encoding={encoding: '1080p', height: 1080, width: 1920, bit_rates: {'1500 Kbps', '3000 Kbps', '4500 Kbps', '6000 Kbps'}}
        WHERE videoid=2644c36e-14bd-11e5-839e-8438355b7e3a;





 



// Write a CQL update command to add a bit\_rate of 1500 Kbps to the row
in the videos table with a videoid of


// Then, to execute this cell, click the Run button in the top-right
corner (or SHIFT-ENTER)






